---
title: Azure Database
date: 2023-02-02 09:00:00
categories: [Azure]
tags: [azure workshop,storage]
---

## Introducing the most common database options in Azure

Azure offers a range of database services to meet the diverse needs of organizations, including:

#### Azure SQL Database:
---
This is a fully managed relational database service that stores data in a structured way. It's great for small projects and provides automatic scaling and high availability.

#### Azure Cosmos DB:
--- 
This is a globally distributed, multi-model database service that supports a variety of data models, including document, key-value, graph, and column-family. It's a NoSQL database that's great for applications that require high scalability and low latency.

#### Azure Database for MySQL:
--- 
This is a fully managed MySQL database service that's easy to set up and use. It's great if you're already familiar with the MySQL database system.

#### Azure Database for PostgreSQL:
---
This is a fully managed PostgreSQL database service that's easy to set up and use. It's great if you're already familiar with the PostgreSQL database system.


In this workshop we will use Azure SQL Database in conjunction with a SQL Server and an elastic pool.


> The choice of using Azure SQL Database with a SQL Server and an elastic pool is due to the following reasons : 
> - Least complex to setup for a beginner. Compared to the other deployement options (i.e. SQL VM and Managed istances), AZ SQL DB allows us to get it up and running without having to deal with a lot of overhead (settings of VM etc...)
> - Cost effective for a small demo. Compared to the other options (Managed Instances and VM ), the AZ SQL DB pay-as-you allows us to keep cost to a minimum.
> - The expectation is that most workshop participants will have some SQL knowledge , even though NoSQL could be a suitable option it would be best to keep the possible exposure to new concepts outside of cloud to a minimum. 
> - Elastic pool still needs to be implemented but it would allow us to monitor ressource usage across all instance of db's and optimize costs. 
{: .prompt-info }



### Setting Azure SQL DATABASE

{% tabs log %}

{% tab log CLI %}
```shell
npm i 
AZ CLI COMMANDS GO HERE
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab log Azure Portal %}
images & steps go here here
{% endtab %}


{% endtabs %}

### Configuring Web application

{% tabs data-struct %}

{% tab data-struct yaml %}
```yaml
hello:
  - 'whatsup'
  - 'hi'
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab data-struct json %}
```json
{
    "hello": ["whatsup", "hi"]
}
```
{% endtab %}

{% endtabs %}